#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset include
LatexCommand input
filename "/home/user/sefie/phd/hein/mlsl-commands.lyx"

\end_inset

 This document describes ideas for bounded modelchecking of ACTA (timed
 automata extended with MLSL).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It should be assumed that there is a constant 
\begin_inset Formula $c$
\end_inset

 that defines how many cars can be at most in a view.
 This is neccessary, because with unbounded many cars MLSL is undecidable.
 The state of a controller is 
\begin_inset Formula $(q,\ts,x)$
\end_inset

 where 
\begin_inset Formula $q$
\end_inset

 is a descrete controll state, 
\begin_inset Formula $\ts$
\end_inset

 is the current snapshot and 
\begin_inset Formula $x$
\end_inset

 is a clock valuation.
 At transitions the controller may have actions changing the snapshot.
 The only actions allowed are to let time pass and to change acceleration,
 reservations, claims of the 
\begin_inset Formula $\ego$
\end_inset

 car.
 It can not directly affect the behavior of other cars.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Undecidability of ACTA
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We consider a weaker class of ACTA, where it is assumed that the view contains
 at most 
\begin_inset Formula $k$
\end_inset

 cars.
 While MLSL is decidable with finitly many cars, we conjecture that ACTA
 are not.
 For this we point out that there is a result stating that for timed automata
 with one skewed clock (a clock going at a different rate than 
\begin_inset Formula $1$
\end_inset

) reachabillity is undecidable.
 To reduce TA with a skewed clock to ACTA we consider the speed of the 
\begin_inset Formula $\ego$
\end_inset

 car as the skewed clock and its acceleration as rate.
 If one then allows to set constraints on the speed (guards at transitions
 etc.), like on can do for clocks reachability propably is undecidable.
 Some difficulties in proving this may be
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
there is a maximum speed.
 However, e.g.
 Fränzle and Swaminathan argued in 
\shape italic
Decidability and Optimum Reachability of MPTA 
\shape default
one can set an upper bound on the values of clocks.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
we can not descretly reset speed.
 Have construction similar to wrapping lemma in 
\shape italic
Undecidability of Hybrid Systems
\shape default
 by Henzinger.
 Set maximum time it takes to decrease speed to 
\begin_inset Formula $0$
\end_inset

 (if 
\begin_inset Formula $0$
\end_inset

 is reached earlier just leave speed at 
\begin_inset Formula $0$
\end_inset

 until max time is reached), and track this with a special clock.
 During reset phase let all (except the special clock) be reset when their
 value reaches max time.
 When the special clock reaches max time all clocks have their values from
 when the reset phase started and speed is 
\begin_inset Formula $0$
\end_inset

.
 This asssumes that all clocks have values smaller than max time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
when increasing acceleration from 
\begin_inset Formula $0$
\end_inset

 to some values, does this happen discretly? If not, this may cause trouble.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Thus, by allowing the same constraints on speed as on clocks (e.g.
 
\begin_inset Formula $\spd\leq c$
\end_inset

) as invariants and at guards ACTA become too powerful to automatically
 check reachability.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
